---
title: "On Home"
layout: "post"
---

> What is a home if not the first place you learn to run from?  
> -- Clementine von Radics

There's usually a love-hate relationship when it comes to the notion of "home". we sometimes treasure the comfort, familiarity, and predictability that it provides; and sometimes feel frustrated with the feeling of being stuck, stationary, and trapped in it. the idea of home is intertwined with the idea of identity, and belonging. I need to know what I "am" to put everything else in place, to know what I am not, and to know what's only an extension of who I am. I need a center of gravity so that I can form my own constellations of emotions and contemplations, centered by my notion of the self.

I find here a crucial challenge: to weigh and compare two main components: **what I am, and what I am not** (or, what I want to be and what I want to not be). to know which of these plays a more prominent role in my journey towards self-definition. An **agile personality** focuses more heavily on the first: the becomings. it aspires, thrives, aims, grows, and eventually achieves. there are more possibilities than precautions. in this way, I always have other alternatives, if one ever fails me.

Equally important, is the second element: the limiter, the control element. the danger sign that ceases acceleration. my common sense that helps me know when to slow down, or even stop. among all the options the first element provides, I pick via this control element. _What suits here, now?_ I'm already at the crossroads, but which way to go next? they're very much based on the categories we belong to. e.g., I think I'm a decent guy, therefore whenever I have the option to deceit, I refuse. since it's in contrast with the group of people I think I'm a part of: "decent people don't deceit".

I prefer having a balanced, harmonized amount of both, but slightly leaning toward the first. I want to have more mistakes than regrets. 

There's one pitfall to this as well. be hesitant to categorize yourself, as one individual decision is almost never significant enough to label your whole personality. it's really intuitive, I don't have a system to know the line yet. _What's the most deceitful thing I -as a decent person- do, that does not make an un-decent person?_ very vague and variable.

With all this said, these are all the possible "realms" of belonging I can fit myself into:

## My Mind
The mind is where we spend most of our time; I know I do. we constantly think, decide, compare, remember, plan, and all sorts of other mind activities that require us to be present in our consciousness. to feel "at home" in my mind means to be connected, comfortable, and at peace with my inner self. am I aware of my thoughts, do I act upon my decisions, do I think critically and for myself, do I attempt to obtain an authentic self, how frequently are my actions the direct response to an "other" and how frequently to my inner monologue, am I mostly a blind follower or I have my own genuine ideas too?

I like to add kindness and acceptance to all of these as well. do I appreciate my efforts, and do I recognize at the least, my conscious attempt to speculate myself?

## My Body
Sometimes I look at my skin as if I'm looking at someone else's. there's an urge for me to imagine looking at my body from a third-person point of view. something that I discovered recently is that my vision of my body has become the "default" image of a human body. it might sound obvious at first but weeks ago I was lost in my memories of a long-gone friend, and suddenly I realized their fingers, in my imagination, looked a lot like mine. We've not been in touch for years and I realized, very randomly, that I don't remember what their fingers actually looked like, so my brain had filled the gaps with my image of my own body. how were they crooked? how big were the nails? I had no idea, not a "finger close-up" image at least. but I had the bigger picture. I knew what they "generally" looked like but these tiny details were the lost pieces of the puzzle, and my brain had decided to go with the default, something of a [Theory of Forms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theory_of_forms).

It felt a bit creepy, like that scene in [Being John Malkovich (1999)](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120601/) where everyone in the city is Malkovich himself. the answer to every unanswered question is me, I am my [God of the Gaps](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/God_of_the_gaps).

Anyway, body positivity has been a hot topic recently, so I'm not gonna go there. my other reason is that I don't believe in the "positivity" part of the term. it's simply selfish, at least it can be, and that's bad enough for my taste. it's selfish in the same way that "I should agree with my opinions at all times" is. I understand the nature of the movement though, to accept what you can't physically change in your body. but this understanding needs an explanation, so it's not really a good one. also, many mistake it for the fact that "it's ok to be fat", or "you're beautiful no matter how you look". neither of which is true. there are all sorts of healthy measurements for our bodies. BMI[^1], FMI[^2], FFM[^3], VFI[^4], BMC[^5], BMR[^6], etc. They all have healthy ranges, if you fall into the healthy range, it's ok. if you have too much or too little of something, it's not ok.

The case for "you're beautiful no matter how you look" however, is not that simple. I disagree with that because it's manipulative. it's self-deceptive. the better idea would be "you should be fine, no matter how you look.", for two reasons:

1. you "should" be fine, because there's really no guarantee, right? looks do matter no matter what you and I think. the vast majority of our judgments, at least initially, are heavily dependent on the appearance, be it a person or a book. "don't judge a book by its cover", sure; but the fact that we hear this a lot is a sign to know how often we do judge (namely) _books_ by their covers. to conclude, what makes sense for me is two things:
    1. to foster a mindset that's open to easily changing my initial idea of something, even after I subconsciously developed a negative idea about it. I look at somebody with crooked teeth, it throws me at first, but it's ok! what matters here is that I should be still willing to start off a conversation and discover the person "even" after my initial somewhat negative perception. it actually means more I believe. if I'm genuinely ugly, I like my friends to interact with me even when I know they think I look bad. it means I have other things that are even better than average, so much so that it compensates for my below-average surface.
    2. I should try, at least to a minimum try to look better. where do I draw the line on how much effort I put into this? it's personal. I personally go with a minimum. I know people who do it a lot. it doesn't matter, what matters is to recognize the fact that it does matter.
2. not everyone has to be "beautiful". why should a random person think they're explicitly "beautiful"? it makes no sense. does everyone need to think they're generous, lucky, a pro soccer player, or able to cook amazing dishes? no. there are numerous qualities a person can have, some in better condition than others, and that's fine! I don't have to be beautiful, I'm not a model or an actor. nothing in my life depends on being explicitly "beautiful". I only need to feel comfortable with my appearance (if only I am adequate of course. This quality too, can come in different proportions: some people just look better. I might look actually uglier than an average person. unlucky in this case, but still, life isn't over. I can compensate by improving my other qualities. who doesn't prefer an honest kind ugly person, over a deceptive psychotic hot guy? I know I do.)


## My Family
## My House
## My City
## My Country
## The Earth
## The Universe

## Footnotes
[^1]: body mass index
[^2]: fat mass index
[^3]: fat-free mass
[^4]: visceral fat index
[^5]: bone mineral content
[^6]: basal metabolic rate
